[Add] pos-platform_order_gofood: new doc (#17452)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/point_of_sale/restaurant/APAC_food_delivery_integrations.rst

===============================
APAC food delivery integrations

> ===============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==================
APAC food delivery
==================
```

Point of Sale provides integrations with popular APAC food delivery platforms, allowing for

> synchronizing orders, updating menus, managing store details directly from the :guilabel:`POS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point of Sale provides integrations with popular APAC food delivery platforms, allowing for
synchronizing orders, updating menus, and managing store details directly from the POS.
```

Supported providers:

> - GoFood

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`GoFood <pos/apac/gofood>`
```

When the GrabFood section is online, it should also be referenced with a target so readers can click to access the provider without scrolling.

- GrabFood

.. important::
   A valid account with each delivery provider is required before proceeding.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _pos/apac/gofood:

```

GoFood
======

The GoFood integration allows businesses in Indonesia (primary market) and Vietnam to efficiently

> manage food delivery orders directly from the Odoo POS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GoFood integration allows businesses in Indonesia (primary market) and Vietnam to manage food
delivery orders directly from the Odoo POS.
```

To use this feature, the following module must be installed:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Platform Order Provider: GoFood`
     - `pos_platform_order_gofood`

>      - This module integrates with GoFood to receive and manage orders.

Reviewer: Since there's only one module, I suggest not creating a table with a single row and a link to the module installation doc.

```suggestion
As a prerequisite, :ref:`activate <general/install>` the :guilabel:`Platform Order Provider:
GoFood` module *(technical name: pos_platform_order_gofood`)* to integrate with GoFood and receive
and manage orders.
```

Configuration
-------------

GoBiz Developer Portal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Start by creating a GoFood account on the GoFood website. Next, navigate to the

> `GoBiz Developer Portal <https://developer.gobiz.com/home/auth>`_ to retrieve the necessary API

Reviewer: I added the URL to the GoFood website

```suggestion
Start by creating a GoFood account on the `GoFood website <https://go-food.eu/>`_. Next, navigate to
the `GoBiz Developer Portal <https://developer.gobiz.com/home/auth>`_ to retrieve the necessary API
```

Author: For the website, I'm not sure if we should add it.
Firstly, the website added here: https://go-food.eu/ is for the EU; and here the topic is for the APAC region, there is a discrepancy.
Then I checked from my side, it seems that the website of gofood in Indonesia is: https://www.gojek.com/en-id/gofood; and the website in Vietnam is this: https://gofood.vn/. If we add the website, it may be better to add both.
Besides, I think for the restaurant users, if they are interested in this function, they may already have the gofood account, this info may not be a big added value. 
So may I get some ideas from you, should we skip the website link or should we add the 2 websites?
Thank you!

Reviewer 2: HI @XIDO-odoo, @LoredanaLrpz asked me to follow up on this PR as she is on holiday for 2 weeks. Since i'm only discovering this topic, would you please provide a bit more context and tell me where GoFood is available at the moment for Odoo? Is only in Indonesia and Vietnam? Sorry if this is a dumb question, as I said I don't have the whole picture here but I'm trying to help move this along. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Hello @auva-odoo , thank you for the follow up. This is a real good question, because I was also curious about it.
GoFood "module" is available for any countries, which means, no matter which country is chosen for the company address in Odoo system, the module can be installed and will be intergrated with odoo POS app.
But the users have to make sure whether their business country can use Gofood service or not. For GoFood, only Indonesia and Vietnam can use it now, so the integration is only meaningful for Indonesia and Vietnam, even though company of other countries can still install it.

Reviewer 3: Checked with the PIC.

To summarize:
- GoFood supports Indonesia only now. (They ended their business in Vietnam :sweat: )
- There is no separate sign-up for developer portal, as long as merchant account is created, they can log-in to the developer portal

I will update the whole doc accordingly..

credentials used to authenticate and synchronize data between Odoo and GoFood:

- App ID
- Secret
- Partner ID
- Relay Secret
- Outlet ID

Odoo setup
~~~~~~~~~~

#. Navigate to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Providers`.
#. Select :guilabel:`GoFood` and change the state to :guilabel:`Enabled`.
#. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab and enter the :guilabel:`App ID`,

>    :guilabel:`Secret Key`, :guilabel:`Partner ID`, and :guilabel:`Relay Secret Key` retrieved.

Reviewer: I removed navigate since we just "look down" and the section is there. Also, I'd suggest reminding readers where the credentials are retrieved from.

```suggestion
#. Under the :guilabel:`Credentials` tab, enter the :guilabel:`App ID`,
   :guilabel:`Secret Key`, :guilabel:`Partner ID`, and :guilabel:`Relay Secret Key` retrieved from
   the Gobiz Developper Portal.
```

.. note::
   To test the integration before formal setup, change the state to :guilabel:`Test`.

Configure the entities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest explaining what the entities are and what they are used for. (One short sentence in enough)

#. Click the :guilabel:`Entities` smart button, then click :guilabel:`New` to create a GoFood

>    :guilabel:`Store`.

Reviewer: I could be wrong, but I didn't see the word "Store" written here, so I'd suggest removing the Guilabel.

```suggestion
   store.
```

#. Fill in the :guilabel:`Name` field and verify the :guilabel:`Provider` field is set to
   :guilabel:`GoFood`.

> #. Enter the :guilabel:`External ID` (this is the Outlet ID retrieved from GoFood).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Fill in the :guilabel:`External ID` field with the Outlet ID retrieved from GoFood.
```

#. Select the related :guilabel:`Point of Sale` and the :guilabel:`Service Hours`.
#. Under the :guilabel:`Accounting` tab, choose the :guilabel:`Payment Method` and select the
   appropriate :guilabel:`Pricelist`.
#. Under the :guilabel:`General` tab, select the :guilabel:`Available Product Categories`
   applicable to the GoFood platform.

.. important::
   Ensure the currency of the selected pricelist matches the company’s country and fiscal
   localization settings.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../../sales/products_prices/prices/pricing`
   - :doc:`../extra/presets`
   - :ref:`pos/products/categories`

```

Synchronize the menu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer: I'd suggest adding one sentence to explain what it is used for.

> #. Once the configuration is complete, click :guilabel:`Sync Menu`.

Reviewer: This sentence might suggest the Sync Menu button is somewhere else or something (I know it's obvious and very big on the form, but). I'm not convinced by that suggestion either, wyt?
```suggestion
#. Once the entity configuration form is filled in entirely, click :guilabel:`Sync Menu`.
```

> #. After a while, navigate to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Stores`.

Reviewer: "After a while" is vague. I'd suggest not saying it at all and adding a note that it can take a few minutes to reassure users who might be concerned.

```suggestion
#. Then, navigate to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Stores`.
```

#. Click the GoFood entity and verify the status displays as :guilabel:`Done`, indicating a
   successful synchronization.

.. note::
   To verify the integration, place sample orders through GoFood and ensure they appear in the

>    :guilabel:`Odoo POS orders` list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The menu synchronization process can take a few minutes.
   - To verify the integration, place sample orders through GoFood and ensure they appear in the
     :guilabel:`Odoo POS orders` list.
```

.. important::
   Any changes made to product configurations require manually clicking :guilabel:`Sync Menu` to

>    push the updated products and prices to GoFood.

Reviewer: I'd suggest adding the path to reach the Sync Menu button. The problem is, and you might have a much better suggestion, is that the path for now is go to Config --> Providers, select GoFood, and click the Entities smart button, which works and is a great flow.
However, users can also just go to Config --> Stores to find all the created entities, if they don't want to go back to the Provider setup form.

Here's my suggestion, but maybe it would be best to mention it elsewhere? 

```suggestion
   Any changes made to product configurations require manual synchronization of the menu anew.  Go
   to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Stores`, select the entity, and click
   :guilabel:`Sync Menu` to push the updated products and prices to GoFood.

```

Reviewer 3: Together with the previous comment, I agree that the previous version of explaining the path to both syncing menu + configuring of the entity is a bit odd.

I do not think smart button is the main way we should be suggesting them to access and my point of view is that not all users will also read the documentation from top-to-bottom.

For both configuring of the entity and syncing the menu, I added a first step to ask them to navigate to the relevant form view to take the right action after it.

Let me know if this doesn't work!
